README.md, before:

# relx - Release eXtension for Python

`relx` is a command-line interface (CLI) tool designed to assist with release management tasks within the SUSE ecosystem, particularly interacting with Open Build Service (OBS) and Internal Build Service (IBS). It provides subcommands for managing artifacts, requests, reviews, packages, and users.

## Installation

To install `relx`, ensure you have Python 3.6 or newer installed.

From the project's root directory (where `pyproject.toml` is located), you can install it in one of the following ways:

1.  **Install in editable mode (for development):**

    ```bash

    # with pip

    pip install -e .

    # with uv

    uv pip install -e .

    ```

    This allows you to make changes to the source code and have the changes reflected immediately without reinstallation.

2.  **Install as a regular package:**

    ```bash

    # with pip

    pip install .

    # with uv

    uv pip install .

    ```

## Usage

Once installed, you can use the `relx` command.

*   **Get general help:**

    ```bash

    relx --help

    ```

*   **Subcommands:**

    `relx` includes several subcommands: `artifacts`, `requests`, `reviews`, `packages`, and `users`. To get help for a specific subcommand, use:

    ```bash

    relx <subcommand> --help

    # Example:

    # relx artifacts --help

    ```

    *   **Reviews Subcommand:**

        The `reviews` subcommand allows you to list, view diffs, and approve review requests from different providers. It currently supports Open Build Service (OBS) and Gitea.

        -   **OBS Provider:**
            Requires `--project` (e.g., `-p myproject`). Can optionally filter by `--staging` (e.g., `-s A`) or `--bugowner`.

        -   **Gitea Provider:**
            Requires `--repository`, `--branch`, and `--reviewer`. Can optionally filter by specific pull request IDs using `--prs` (e.g., `--prs 123,456`).

        **Example: List and review Gitea pull requests**

        ```bash
        relx reviews --repository my/repo --branch main --reviewer "gitea-user" --prs 123,456
        ```


*   **Common arguments:**

    The main `relx` command also accepts global arguments like `--osc-instance` and `--osc-config`.

## Configuration

`relx` uses a `config.yaml` file for its configuration. An example configuration file is provided at `config_files/config.yaml` within this repository.

To use `relx`, you should copy this example configuration file to your user configuration directory. By default, `relx` looks for `config.yaml` in `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/relx/` (which usually defaults to `~/.config/relx/`).

1.  **Copy the example configuration:**

    ```bash

    mkdir -p "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/relx/"

    cp config_files/config.yaml "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/relx/config.yaml"

    ```
2.  **Customize the configuration:**

    Edit `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/relx/config.yaml` to match your environment and preferences. Key sections include:

    *   `common`: General settings like `api_url`, `default_project`, and `debug` mode.

    *   `artifacts`: Configuration for listing artifacts, including repository names and patterns.

    *   `packages`: Settings related to package information, such as `default_productcomposer`.

3.  **`RELX_CONF_DIR` Environment Variable (Optional):**

    If you prefer to store your `config.yaml` in a different location, you can set the `RELX_CONF_DIR` environment variable to point to that directory. For example:

    ```bash

    export RELX_CONF_DIR=/path/to/your/custom_config_directory

    ```

    If `RELX_CONF_DIR` is set, `relx` will use that path instead of the default `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/relx/`.

## Development

### Linting and Formatting

This project uses `ruff` for linting and formatting. To ensure code quality and consistency, please run the following commands before submitting any changes:

*   **Run the linter:**

    ```bash

    # with ruff

    ruff check .

    # with uv

    uv run ruff check .

    ```

*   **Run the formatter:**

    ```bash

    # with ruff

    ruff format .

    # with uv

        uv run ruff format .

        ```

    ### Testing

    This project uses Python's built-in `unittest` framework for testing. Tests are located in the `tests/` directory.

    To run the full test suite, use the following command from the project's root directory:

    ```bash

    # with standard python

    python -m unittest discover

    # with uv

    uv run python -m unittest discover

    ```

    ### Type Checking

    This project uses `mypy` for static type checking. To ensure type consistency and catch potential errors early, run the type checker:

    *   **Run the type checker:**

        ```bash
        uv run mypy src/
        ```

        Note: `mypy` might require additional stub packages (e.g., `types-PyYAML`, `lxml-stubs`) to be installed for full functionality. These stubs are automatically installed in the CI pipeline. For local development, you might need to install them via `uv pip install <stub-package-name>` or use `mypy --install-types`.

    ### Dependency Management

This project uses `uv` for managing Python dependencies, with `pyproject.toml` defining direct dependencies and `uv.lock` ensuring reproducible environments.

**Key Concepts:**

*   `pyproject.toml`: Defines your project's direct dependencies and their version constraints. This is your primary source of truth for *what* your project needs.

*   `uv.lock`: A generated file that records the *exact* versions and cryptographic hashes of all direct and transitive dependencies. This ensures reproducible installations across all environments. **Do not edit this file manually.**

**Workflow:**

1.  **Install/Sync Dependencies:** To install all dependencies exactly as specified in `uv.lock` (e.g., after cloning the repository):

    ```bash

    uv sync

    ```

2.  **Add a New Dependency:** To add a new package to your project:

    ```bash

    uv pip install <package-name>

    # Example: uv pip install "requests<3"

    ```

    This command will automatically update `pyproject.toml`, resolve the new dependency tree, update `uv.lock`, and install the package into your virtual environment.

3.  **Manage `uv.lock` Updates and Dependency Upgrades:**

    *   **After Manual `pyproject.toml` Changes (or adding/removing dependencies):** If you edit `pyproject.toml`, you need to re-generate `uv.lock`. This command updates the lock file without forcing upgrades of unaffected dependencies:

        ```bash

        uv pip compile pyproject.toml

        ```

        Then, synchronize your virtual environment: `uv sync`

    *   **To Upgrade All Dependencies:** To upgrade all packages to the latest versions allowed by `pyproject.toml` (e.g., for security updates or new features), you should run:

        ```bash

        uv pip compile pyproject.toml --upgrade

        ```

        Then, synchronize your virtual environment: `uv sync`

5.  **Version Control:** Always commit both `pyproject.toml` and `uv.lock` to your Git repository to ensure consistent environments for all contributors and deployments.

### Using a `.env` File for Development

For development, it's convenient to use a `.env` file in the project root to manage environment variables like `RELX_CONF_DIR` without having to `export` them in your shell. This project is configured to safely load a `.env` file **only** from the project root.

1.  **Create a `.env` file** in the root of this repository:
    ```bash
    touch .env
    ```

2.  **Add your development variables.** For example, to use the example `config.yaml` for testing, add the following line to your `.env` file:
    ```
    RELX_CONF_DIR=./config_files
    ```

3.  **Run the application:**

    *   **Using `uv`:** The `uv run` command automatically finds and loads the `.env` file.
        ```bash
        uv run relx --help
        ```

    *   **Without `uv` (using Python):** The script will automatically find the `.env` file in the project root when executed.
        ```bash
        python -m relx.cli --help
        ```

Commit message:

Allow Gitea reviewer to be configured by default
Introduces the ability to define a default Gitea reviewer in
'config.yaml'. The '--reviewer' CLI argument in the 'reviews' subcommand
will now use this default if not explicitly provided, while still
allowing CLI arguments to override the configured default.

Includes a new test case in tests/test_reviews.py to verify this
behavior.

Updated the 'Reviews Subcommand' section in README.md to reflect that
the '--reviewer' argument for the Gitea provider is now optional, as it
can be sourced from the 'gitea' section of 'config.yaml'.

Signed-off-by: Gustavo Yokoyama Ribeiro <gyribeiro@suse.com>

README.md, after:

# relx - Release eXtension for Python

`relx` is a command-line interface (CLI) tool designed to assist with release management tasks within the SUSE ecosystem, particularly interacting with Open Build Service (OBS) and Internal Build Service (IBS). It provides subcommands for managing artifacts, requests, reviews, packages, and users.

## Installation

To install `relx`, ensure you have Python 3.6 or newer installed.

From the project's root directory (where `pyproject.toml` is located), you can install it in one of the following ways:

1.  **Install in editable mode (for development):**

    ```bash

    # with pip

    pip install -e .

    # with uv

    uv pip install -e .

    ```

    This allows you to make changes to the source code and have the changes reflected immediately without reinstallation.

2.  **Install as a regular package:**

    ```bash

    # with pip

    pip install .

    # with uv

    uv pip install .

    ```

## Usage

Once installed, you can use the `relx` command.

*   **Get general help:**

    ```bash

    relx --help

    ```

*   **Subcommands:**

    `relx` includes several subcommands: `artifacts`, `requests`, `reviews`, `packages`, and `users`. To get help for a specific subcommand, use:

    ```bash

    relx <subcommand> --help

    # Example:

    # relx artifacts --help

    ```

    *   **Reviews Subcommand:**

        The `reviews` subcommand allows you to list, view diffs, and approve review requests from different providers. It currently supports Open Build Service (OBS) and Gitea.

        -   **OBS Provider:**
            Requires `--project` (e.g., `-p myproject`). Can optionally filter by `--staging` (e.g., `-s A`) or `--bugowner`.

        -   **Gitea Provider:**
            Requires `--repository` and `--branch`. The `--reviewer` argument is now optional if a default `reviewer` is specified under the `gitea` section in your `config.yaml`. Can optionally filter by specific pull request IDs using `--prs` (e.g., `--prs 123,456`).

        **Example: List and review Gitea pull requests**

        ```bash
        relx reviews --repository my/repo --branch main --reviewer "gitea-user" --prs 123,456
        ```


*   **Common arguments:**

    The main `relx` command also accepts global arguments like `--osc-instance` and `--osc-config`.

## Configuration

`relx` uses a `config.yaml` file for its configuration. An example configuration file is provided at `config_files/config.yaml` within this repository.

To use `relx`, you should copy this example configuration file to your user configuration directory. By default, `relx` looks for `config.yaml` in `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/relx/` (which usually defaults to `~/.config/relx/`).

1.  **Copy the example configuration:**

    ```bash

    mkdir -p "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/relx/"

    cp config_files/config.yaml "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/relx/config.yaml"

    ```
2.  **Customize the configuration:**

    Edit `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/relx/config.yaml` to match your environment and preferences. Key sections include:

    *   `common`: General settings like `api_url`, `default_project`, and `debug` mode.

    *   `artifacts`: Configuration for listing artifacts, including repository names and patterns.

    *   `packages`: Settings related to package information, such as `default_productcomposer`.

3.  **`RELX_CONF_DIR` Environment Variable (Optional):**

    If you prefer to store your `config.yaml` in a different location, you can set the `RELX_CONF_DIR` environment variable to point to that directory. For example:

    ```bash

    export RELX_CONF_DIR=/path/to/your/custom_config_directory

    ```

    If `RELX_CONF_DIR` is set, `relx` will use that path instead of the default `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/relx/`.

## Development

### Linting and Formatting

This project uses `ruff` for linting and formatting. To ensure code quality and consistency, please run the following commands before submitting any changes:

*   **Run the linter:**

    ```bash

    # with ruff

    ruff check .

    # with uv

    uv run ruff check .

    ```

*   **Run the formatter:**

    ```bash

    # with ruff

    ruff format .

    # with uv

        uv run ruff format .

        ```

    ### Testing

    This project uses Python's built-in `unittest` framework for testing. Tests are located in the `tests/` directory.

    To run the full test suite, use the following command from the project's root directory:

    ```bash

    # with standard python

    python -m unittest discover

    # with uv

    uv run python -m unittest discover

    ```

    ### Type Checking

    This project uses `mypy` for static type checking. To ensure type consistency and catch potential errors early, run the type checker:

    *   **Run the type checker:**

        ```bash
        uv run mypy src/
        ```

        Note: `mypy` might require additional stub packages (e.g., `types-PyYAML`, `lxml-stubs`) to be installed for full functionality. These stubs are automatically installed in the CI pipeline. For local development, you might need to install them via `uv pip install <stub-package-name>` or use `mypy --install-types`.

    ### Dependency Management

This project uses `uv` for managing Python dependencies, with `pyproject.toml` defining direct dependencies and `uv.lock` ensuring reproducible environments.

**Key Concepts:**

*   `pyproject.toml`: Defines your project's direct dependencies and their version constraints. This is your primary source of truth for *what* your project needs.

*   `uv.lock`: A generated file that records the *exact* versions and cryptographic hashes of all direct and transitive dependencies. This ensures reproducible installations across all environments. **Do not edit this file manually.**

**Workflow:**

1.  **Install/Sync Dependencies:** To install all dependencies exactly as specified in `uv.lock` (e.g., after cloning the repository):

    ```bash

    uv sync

    ```

2.  **Add a New Dependency:** To add a new package to your project:

    ```bash

    uv pip install <package-name>

    # Example: uv pip install "requests<3"

    ```

    This command will automatically update `pyproject.toml`, resolve the new dependency tree, update `uv.lock`, and install the package into your virtual environment.

3.  **Manage `uv.lock` Updates and Dependency Upgrades:**

    *   **After Manual `pyproject.toml` Changes (or adding/removing dependencies):** If you edit `pyproject.toml`, you need to re-generate `uv.lock`. This command updates the lock file without forcing upgrades of unaffected dependencies:

        ```bash

        uv pip compile pyproject.toml

        ```

        Then, synchronize your virtual environment: `uv sync`

    *   **To Upgrade All Dependencies:** To upgrade all packages to the latest versions allowed by `pyproject.toml` (e.g., for security updates or new features), you should run:

        ```bash

        uv pip compile pyproject.toml --upgrade

        ```

        Then, synchronize your virtual environment: `uv sync`

5.  **Version Control:** Always commit both `pyproject.toml` and `uv.lock` to your Git repository to ensure consistent environments for all contributors and deployments.

### Using a `.env` File for Development

For development, it's convenient to use a `.env` file in the project root to manage environment variables like `RELX_CONF_DIR` without having to `export` them in your shell. This project is configured to safely load a `.env` file **only** from the project root.

1.  **Create a `.env` file** in the root of this repository:
    ```bash
    touch .env
    ```

2.  **Add your development variables.** For example, to use the example `config.yaml` for testing, add the following line to your `.env` file:
    ```
    RELX_CONF_DIR=./config_files
    ```

3.  **Run the application:**

    *   **Using `uv`:** The `uv run` command automatically finds and loads the `.env` file.
        ```bash
        uv run relx --help
        ```

    *   **Without `uv` (using Python):** The script will automatically find the `.env` file in the project root when executed.
        ```bash
        python -m relx.cli --help
        ```
